# 031

Happy Monday and greetings from a hyperactive Dubai. I am here this week with a dream team of collaborators to participate in a [panel about generative AI and the future of cities](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/global-covenant-of-mayors-for-climate-energy-gcom_climateaction-netzero-innovate4cities-activity-7136987681602859008-OX9v/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_ios) at COP28. The session is open, and if you happen to be around, we would love to receive you at the Terra Pavilion on Wednesday at 3pm. We’ll be hosting a quick interactive AI co-creation exercise for participants and engage in conversation about the role of machine learning in shaping the future of urban innovation with high profile guests. Participants will explore how their personal sense of purpose overlaps with possible future job opportunities. Would love to see you there\!

MZ

* * *

###

* * *

#### OpenAI balancing nonprofit ideals and profit-driven realities

* * *

#### Q\*: towards 100% accuracy and pioneering steps to AGI

* * *

#### Decoding LLMs in 1 hour: Core components and advanced applications

Thanks Aris\!

* * *

#### Ambition and distrust in AI: the tense race for control among tech titans

[Great, detailed overview in the New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/03/technology/ai-openai-musk-page-altman.html) of the key players and movements shaping AI over the past decade.

> _The drama inside OpenAI gave the world its first glimpse of the bitter feuds among those who will determine the future of A.I._

* * *

##### Emerging Vocabulary

#### **Perceptron**

_Foundational concept in artificial neural networks, serves as a basic linear classifier that mirrors the functionality of a neuron in the human brain. It operates by receiving multiple input signals, each associated with a weight, and processes these inputs to produce a singular output signal. This output is determined through the aggregation and transformation of the inputs, reflecting the basic mechanism by which neural networks make decisions or classifications._

##### [View all emerging vocabulary entries](https://newsletter.envisioning.io/p/emerging-vocabulary) **→
**

* * *

* * *