# 063

Happy Monday and welcome to your weekly download of faster, higher and stronger memes.

It is remarkable how not a week goes by without significant releases and announcements happening in the AI space. How many of these are worth your attention is arguable, but I don’t have the impression that the rate of change is about to slow down.

On the contrary, there are relatively few places unaffected by the onslaught of AI news. Everywhere we look there are new attempts and applications trying to persuade us into automating or augmenting our abilities. Some think these will plateau, others believe we are only yet scratching the surface.

Regardless of how this pans out in our lifetimes, I am delighted to be sharing these learnings with you, and a growing number of readers. Establishing my tone & pace in such a technical and rapidly changing environment is a balancing-act, which makes me all the more surprised so many of you are jumping on board.

Below is a full day’s worth of listening from the people actually building AI – I hope you enjoy it as much as I did\!

Until next week,
MZ

* * *

* * *

#### Lessons from the LLM Avengers

[Highly recommended keynote version](https://youtu.be/qBHfQT3YtyY) from the "Lessons of a year building with AI" team. The whole thing is worth a listen.

> _Great AI researchers look at their data, but great AI engineers look at their data regularly, inspect traces, and ensure alignment with user interactions._ \- Shrea Shankar

* * *

#### A New Era for Open Source AI

[Meta released Llama 3.1](https://www.theverge.com/2024/7/23/24204055/meta-ai-llama-3-1-open-source-assistant-openai-chatgpt) which is a big deal. Hear Zuck tell the story.

> _Our vision is that there should be a lot of different AI services out there, not just one singular AI, enabling every business and creator to build and train their own custom models._

* * *

#### Open Source AI and Personal Transformation

Good interview with Zuck about Meta's AI ambitions:

> _My goal was to have Meta AI be the most used AI assistant in the world by the end of the year, and I think we're basically on track for that._

* * *

#### Insights from Klarna's Journey

[In-depth interview with Klarna's CEO Sebastian Siemiatowski](https://youtu.be/m3niSE-8ZvE) delivers lots of detailed signals about their AI approach.

> _One of the most critical rules we agreed on was that the customer should always know if they are speaking to AI or a human._

* * *

#### Augmentation, not replacement.

[Brilliant interview with Miqdad Jaffer, ex-head of AI products at Shopify](https://youtu.be/7KNo63Il97A). The whole thing is worth a listen if you are creating apps with generative intelligence.

* * *

Thanks, Greg\!

* * *

#### Envisioning in the wild

Thanks to all readers who shared pictures of their goodies & especially to Dai for helping us realize the campaign 🎉. We love to see it\!

* * *